---
layout: post
title: "Best Albums of 2022"
---

2015 set an incredibly high bar for rap music with incredible albums from Kendrick, Earl, Rocky, Young Thug, Drake (Twice), Travis Scott, Mac, and more. It didn't seem as if any year would top that for a while. But thanks to a drought of music for 2 years from the pandemic, so many artists' release schedules lined up for 2022. Rappers like JID, Mavi, Denzel, Saba, Tobi Lou, and more put out what I believe are their best albums yet. It was hard to narrow down my list but I managed to come up with my 20 favorites below.

<!-- Brent Faiyaz -->
# 20.
{% include spotify_album.html id="0PHMNbcgHfzSUALlfk7wGg" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Gravity, All Mine, Dead Man Walking

I like Sonder Son more overall but Gravity carries hard here. Also have to mention that Drake verse. 

# 19.
<!-- Ab-Soul -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="1hNzs6WR8UbUsAkyr4jXEO" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Do Better, Gotta Rap

A late contender but another great entry in Ab-Soul's discography. I think I like this one more than Control System but it's a close call. I appreciated how open and honest he is and of course the wordplay is insane. 

# 18.
<!-- Steve Lacy -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="3Ks0eeH0GWpY4AU20D5HPD" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Sunshine, Bad Habit, Helmet

Such a fun album. I wish I could've seen him being a menace on tour. Bad Habit is a song of the year contender but Sunshine is my favorite on here. 

# 17.
<!-- Earl -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="51heTwkSfb4Z5dRIgwU2bd" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Fire in the Hole, 2010, Titanic

I liked some of the song's on Earl's last album but the production and vocals were too muddy for me. I like the lofi production here but I appreciate that I can still make out what he's saying over it. Sonically this album sounds like a mix of I Don't Like Shit and SRS but without the intense grief and depression. Highlights include Fire in the Hole and Nak's ad libs on Titanic.


# 16.
<!-- Bad Bunny -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="3RQQmkQEvNCY4prGKE6oc5" %}
**Favorite Songs**:

# 15.
<!-- Tobi Lou  -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="4g1NDArjCjyWXEWIbOhG8M" %}
**Favorite Songs**:

# 14.
<!-- Pusha T -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="6o38CdD7CUlZDCFhjZYLDH" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Dreamin of the Past, Neck & Wrist, Diet Coke

This is a contender for Pusha T's best album. I loved both sides of the production, Kanye's slightly more than Pharrell's. Love the Jay Z verse on Neck & Wrist too. 

# 13.
<!-- Metro Boomin -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="7txGsnDSqVMoRl6RQ9XyZP" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Metro Spider + I Can't Save You, Raindrops (Insane), Around Me, Feel The Fiyaaaah, Too Many Nights

Great album but honestly it only beat out Pusha T because of that Young Thug verse. Metro Boomin and all the features brought their A game and have me hyped for the rumored third album in the trilogy.

# 12.
<!-- Brockhampton -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="0EICXG4UBIAUOKVlfBGipA" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Man on The Moon, Crucify Me, Animal

This one ended up being my most listened to Brockhampton album post-Saturation. It's not quite on their level, but its a good finale for the group. I liked the instrumental sections on a lot of the songs, like on the outros for Man on the Moon and Crucify Me. It was a nice way of shining the spotlight on the producers. 

# 11.
<!-- MIKE -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="52743dknIjnsCqQrKSIX5r" %}
**Favorite Songs**: What Do I Do, Tapestry

I first heard of MIKE from Pitchfork best new music when he dropped May God Bless Your Hustle in 2017. Eight quality projects later and MIKE still hasn't gotten his flowers, despite inspiring stylistic changes in Earl. 

# 10.
<!-- SZA -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="07w0rG5TETcyihsEIZR3qG" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Good Days, Kill Bill, Smoking on my Ex Pack, Nobody Gets Me, Open Arms 

Not technically a rap album at all but I'm counting it anyway and no, that's not just recency bias. I love that SZA pushed herself out of her comfort zone with the production on this album, some of which hit (Smoking on my Ex Pack, Forgiveless) and some of which is still growing on me (F2F). Highlights include the moment Travis Scott comes in on Open Arms, the hook on Kill Bill, and the entirety of Good Days, which might be my all time favorite SZA song. Only thing missing from this was an Isaiah Rashad feature. Hopefully on the deluxe at least. 

# 9.
<!-- Joey Badass -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="261LWEVYViMXijB95mAty3" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Brand New 911, Survivors Guilt, The Baddest, Cruise Control, Zipcodes

I think this album is second only to 1999 in Joey's discography and that's more testament to how incredible that album is. This one was a great listen too, clearly a direct successor in name, production style, and introspective lyrics. The Westside Gunn feature was a lot of fun and more than made up for the Chris Brown one.

# 8.
<!-- Saba -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="4dhK1XKetMnAilmo6CMID8" %}
**Favorite Songs**: an Interlude Called "Circus", Few Good Things, Still, Fearmonger, Come My Way

I've been a Saba fan since ComfortZone and its been amazing to see him grow as an artist all these years, with each album better than the last. This one continues his upwards trajectory, a huge tone shift from the grief that permeated Care for Me. Here the production is brighter and less moody than earlier albums. I just wish the interlude was longer. Hearing Saba and Smino together is always a treat and makes me really hope we get Ghetto Sage with Noname someday.

# 7.
<!-- The Weeknd -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="2nLOHgzXzwFEpl62zAgCEC" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Less Than Zero, Out of Time, Is There Someone Else?

Not quite as good as After Hours but Less Than Zero might be my favorite Weeknd song. I love how sonically consistent the album is and how the themes are directly carried over from After Hours. 

# 6. 
<!-- Denzel -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="7KtyUeiJidoZO0ybxBXw0Q" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Walkin, X-Wing, Troubles, The Ills, Ain't No Way

A real AOTY contender and easily Denzel's best album (1. MMESYF 2. Unlocked 3. Ta13oo). It's crazy to think this is the same Denzel who made Ultimate, now sounding right at home on Robert Glasper production. Walkin quickly became my favorite Denzel song when it released until I heard X-Wing when the album dropped. The sequencing was impeccable too. No skips. 

# 5.
<!-- Vince -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="2G549zeda2XNICgLmU0pNW" %}
**Favorite Songs**: When Sparks Fly, Papercuts, Lemonade, Magic, The Blues


# 4.
<!-- Smino -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="6dtDTbVBQ9QwsNaqEnjsOT" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Lee & Lovie, No L's, Pro Freak, Matinee, 90 Proof

I think the only reason this isn't my favorite Smino album is cause of the nostalgia blkswn evokes. Smino's rapping has never sounded better than this album and his wordplay and flows have somehow gotten even more fun to listen to.  This album is just a fun listen start to finish, but the outro, Lee & Lovie, is the song I have on repeat the most. I read somewhere that its named after his grandparents which fits ("lets get old like Lee and Lovie") and adds even greater meaning to an already great song.  Cole continued his insane feature run with 90 Proof. 

# 3.
<!-- Mavi -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="0zI5KZ81RN2x6RrQchLLBQ" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Baking Soda, Reason!, My Good Ghosts, 3 Left Feet, Chinese Finger Trap

# 2.
<!-- Mr. Morale -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="79ONNoS4M9tfIA1mYLBYVX" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Count Me Out, Mirror, Savior + Savior Interlude, Father Time, N95

# 1.
<!-- JID -->
{% include spotify_album.html id="4rJDCELWL0fjdmN9Gn4f4g" %}
**Favorite Songs**: Kody Blu 31, Dance Now, Money, Surround Sound, 2007

Wow. This was an incredible listen start to finish and probably my most played album from the year. Its hard to believe that JID dropped a better album than Kendrick but there's no question that he did. 